Rob/1.36.0 docs (#1314)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim/SCIMUser.adoc

---
layout: doc
title: SCIM User APIs
description: APIs for provisioning SCIM Users in FusionAuth using a SCIM Client
---

== Overview

This page contains all of the APIs for managing Users through SCIM User requests.

* <<Create a User>>
* <<Delete a User>>
* <<Retrieve a User>>
* <<Update a User>>

== Create a User

> This API is used to create a new FusionAuth User from a SCIM request.

Author: Different Lambdas would be called to process the incoming and outgoing requests so the dev would be able to retrieve data specific to one schema or the other and choose where to store it in the FusionAuth User. For example, they may want to store a manager's id that could be included in the EnterpriseUser schema into a user.data property since FusionAuth doesn't have that concept. The User schema would not have that data per the the spec so it's lambda would not try to store it.

In practice, the two lambdas will probably be pretty much identical, but this allows for the most flexibility if they want to support both the EnterpriseUser and User SCIM core schemas.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Create a User from a SCIM request
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#POST# [uri]#/api/scim/resources/v2/Users#
--

:http_method: POST
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim/_scim-user-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

> The response for this API contains the User that was just created in SCIM schema format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response for this API contains the User that was created in SCIM schema format.
```

:webhook_event:
:create_user:
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:create_user!:
:webhook_event!:

For FusionAuth SCIM endpoints, any error responses will be returned in standard SCIM schema. See more details in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim[SCIM API Overview].

:create_user:
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim/_scim-user-response-body.adoc[]
:create_user!:

== Delete a User

> This API is used to delete a FusionAuth User through a SCIM request. You must specify the Id of the User on the URI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is used to hard delete a FusionAuth User through a SCIM request. You must specify the Id of the User on the URI.
```

:create_user!:
:webhook_event!:

For FusionAuth SCIM endpoints, any error responses will be returned in standard SCIM schema. See more details in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim[SCIM API Overview].

== Retrieve a User

This API is used to retrieve a FusionAuth User in SCIM schema format through a SCIM request.

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Retrieves a User through a SCIM request
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#GET# [uri]#/api/scim/resources/v2/Users/`\{userId\}`#
--
==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The FusionAuth userId.

:http_method: GET

=== Response

The response for this API contains the User in SCIM schema format.

:webhook_event:
:create_user:
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/_standard-post-response-codes.adoc[]
:create_user!:
:webhook_event!:

For FusionAuth SCIM endpoints, any error responses will be returned in standard SCIM schema. See more details in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim[SCIM API Overview].

:create_user:
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim/_scim-user-response-body.adoc[]
:create_user!:

== Update a User

> This API is used to update a new FusionAuth User from a SCIM request. This is a true update meaning that the FusionAuth User will be overwritten with only the data contained in the request. It is NOT a partial update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is used to update a new FusionAuth User from a SCIM request. The FusionAuth User will be overwritten with only the data contained in the request. It is not a partial update or a patch.
```

Reviewer: What about password, etc?

=== Request

[.api-authentication]
link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/authentication#api-key-authentication[icon:lock[type=fas]] Updates a User from a SCIM request
[.endpoint]
.URI
--
[method]#PUT# [uri]#/api/scim/resources/v2/Users/`\{userId\}`#
--
==== Request Parameters

[.api]
[field]#userId# [type]#[UUID]# [optional]#Optional#::
The FusionAuth userId.

:http_method: PUT
include::/docs/v1/tech/apis/scim/_scim-user-request-body.adoc[]

=== Response

> The response for this API contains the User that was just updated in SCIM schema format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response for this API contains the User that was updated in SCIM schema format.
```
